>> Scott Moss: A config driven app.
Basically in order to make
this production ready and
easy to work with there's some things
we just don't wanna hard code in and
we want to change the values depending
on what environment we're in.
So just like any service side framework or
language you would use,
you would have access to
environment variables.
Who here doesn't know what
environment variables are?
All right, so your code is executed
in some environment on some computer,
right, so Linux computer,
in my case this computer right here.
We can inject variables from that
environment that's executed in our code
into our applications, and
we can reference those in variables.
And those variables are live, so
that's a good way to switch
configurations based off environment.
So, for instance, my environment is
testing, I might have a different url for
my testing database.
If it's production,
I have to put my production database
in it because it's deployed somewhere.
So you want to switch things like that.
A really good example for
service is the port.
You have no idea what port you're gonna be
on when you deploy the service somewhere.
How do you know what port to put in there?
Well it's coming from
the environment variable.
Whatever service or stack that's hosting
your application, its job is to inject
that port in the environment variable
because it can probably change.
Who knows what it's gonna be.
So you would just listen to it
from the environment variable.
So we want to keep all
the configuration in one place.
It's also a great place for
things like secrets and stuff like that.
So you wanna use config values in
a place of hard coded values in our app.
So in our app I think we're hard
coded in the DB connection urls,
we're hard coding the ports,
we do not have one secret.
We don't really talk about it, but
the authentication section
has a JSON web token secret.
That's hard-coded.
We want that to change for
production and stuff as well.
So all those places where things
need to change depending on
where our app is deployed, we should
put that in a configuration file.
And then what we need to do is we need
to generate that configuration file,
depending on what environment
our code is executing in.
So we'll have a base configuration file,
and from there it will require
the appropriate production, staging,
local, testing configuration.
It will merge itself and
then give you a configuration
file you can use in your app.
And then it has different values on it.
So this is a better approach to building
out APIs to build stuff on the fly and
not locking yourself into mistakes and
accidentally putting secrets in your
git repo and all types of nasty things.
So you totally wanna do this,
take advantage of this.
You can't do something like this on
a client side because you can't inject
environment variables in a client side.
Any code you put in the client's gonna be
in the browser, right, you can't hide it,
it's gonna be there.
This, nobody's gonna see
environment variables.
They're coming from the environment.
They can only see the reference to it.
So it's perfect for that.
So that's what we're gonna use.
So let's take note of all the places
where we're hardcoding things, again, and
then we'll talk about how we can create
a configuration system around that.
So one of the first places I
know was in dbjs right here.
It's a hardcoded url for Mongo database.
If we deployed this,
if we try to connect to this, it'll break.
This will totally break, unless,
for instance, you have your own
Linux machine up in the cloud where you
had your own Mongo instance created.
Then okay, maybe it would work.
But most likely,
you're probably using some cloud DB or
something that's being hosted
somewhere else, through some VPC or
something like that, and
you need a different url.
You're gonna use that right rail for
that, so that's one.
The other one is the main one,
which is the port inside of index.js.
This just says 3000.
This is not flexible at all, so
some configuration needs to be changed.
And then the last place is inside of
off.js, which is this secret right here.
This needs to change, and
then for extra credit,
this disableAuth right here, this allows
us to turn off authentication for testing.
So for testing, this is hey, can you just
not check authentication please, thanks.
That's what that does.
So we can set all this up
inside of a configuration file.
So the way that will look is if inside
your API, if you were to create a,
actually let me check out
what's in this other branch.
>> Scott Moss: Lesson-7, okay.
So we're on lesson 7, and, oop,
let me check out today's solution.
>> Scott Moss: Do we check
out [INAUDIBLE] okay.
So cool, so if you're inside of here,
your repo, the way I've been doing it is,
like I said, I want to keep
the configuration in one place.
I want it to be dynamic so depending
on the environment, it inherits and
merges its properties based on
those different environments.
And it's solely based on that.
So that I can feel confident that, hey,
all I have to do is change the node
environment to testing and
I get a testing configuration.
All I do is change it to staging and
I get a staging configuration.
It's pretty simple.
So to do that, if you look, and
you don't have to turn off the branch,
you can just look at my code right here.
We start off with a base config,
something like this.
So you have a base config.
Where the first thing is,
you can forget about this import, but
the first thing is you wanna make sure
you have the environment variable
that you're gonna read from.
For us, and Node,
the standard is NODE_ENV.
That's just what we use in Nodes.
You inject the appropriate environment
in which we are running our code in.
So process.env.
Notice that there's no variable here for
called process or anything like that.
And that's because,
again, in NOde, your entire code
just wraps in a function like this.
So I talked about this before, right, but
what I didn't talk about
is what passed in here.
You get some stuff that's passed in here.
You get dir name,
which is a variable that represents
your current directory that you're in.
You get require, which we use to
require stuff, you get file name,
and there's tons of other stuff in here.
And finally, you get process.
Process is this, so
even though you don't see it in here,
it's given to you at run time, Node,
execute your code in a iffy, like this.
That's how it creates modules, that's all
a module is, a module's just a closure.
That's all it is, so
you just get a closure,
it's just a scope, so
that's where that process comes from.
You also get this thing called global.
I'm not gonna tell you about it cuz
you just don't use it, all right?
[LAUGH] Do not use global.
You're like, yeah I'm just
gonna put everything on global.
No please don't, do not use global.
So process is there.
And we want the .env property of it and
then the environment variable
that we want is env.
Node.env, so
every environment variables you got on
your computer you can read them in here.
Go assessment variables and read them.
You'll see, they'll show up right here.
So we want the Node.env.
So basically what we're saying here is,
we're gonna set it to development
if it's not set already.
We're defaulting to development.
That's what this is doing, right?
Node_env, or if that's nothing than
it's going to equal development.
So that's the first step.
And the second step is to
create you baseConfig.
This is default configuration,
everything is based off this,
here is my default for everything.
So by default port is 3000, I don't
have any secrets, [INAUDIBLE] object,
my database has a url string that
is just this local database.
Pretty simple?
Okay?
And then what we do is,
depending on the env, right here,
depending on that env, what we're gonna do
is we're going to load up the appropriate
file that has its own configuration in it.
So if you notice here,
there is a dev file, a prod file,
a testing file Depending on what
the env is if it's development or
dev it's gonna load up that file.
If it's testing or
test it's gonna load up that file.
If it's production our project is gonna
load up that file defaulting back
to just f.
And then it merges it.
It merges the env config on top of the
base config overriding what's on the left.
And then now when we require
this file we get a extendable
configuration that changes depending
on node environment, all right?
All we have to do override that
environment is when we execute any
scripts, and for us,
only one we have is start,
is that you just pass in an environment.
Notice right here,
I have NODE_ENVE=testing.
So if this was development I
can explicitly pass it in but
although we do default to
development I don't have to do it.
But if this was production I could do
that, and now we're in production mode.
It'll make sure the configure's
production, the database url is production
database url, the secrets are expected
to be injected, all that good stuff.
That's how you would do it.
On your platform of choice where you
deploy it they have somewhere in their
options somewhere that you can
put environment variables.
If they don't, leave that platform
because you shouldn't be using them.
Every platform has that.
You just put your environment variables in
there and that's how you inject them and
then you can change them.
And that also means that because you
have a configuration driven development.
Let's say for some reason you
have the wrong database url.
Some reason,
it's hitting the wrong database url.
All you gotta do is go ahead
change your environment variable.
You don't have to redeploy cuz
you're like, it's got the wrong.
It says staging,
supposed to be production.
Change to production and you're done.
You don't have to redeploy your whole app.
You just change the environment variable.
These are live.
It'll restart your app,
the service provider.
But you don't have to redeploy.
So you want to configure as many things as
possible on your environment variable and
not hardcode them cuz it
limits you having to redeploy.
It also allows you to
change it on the fly.
And it just makes sense logically.
It saves you code, less if statements.
You can put one if statement
inside this config file.
Or a switch statement in my case.
Or you can put an if statement in every
single file that you would ever need
a dynamic value.
So I'd rather just have one place where it
has the switch and if statements instead.